packages/x/components/bubble/index.en-US.md, before:

---
category: Components
group:
  title: Common
  order: 0
title: Bubble
description: A bubble component for chat.
cover: https://mdn.alipayobjects.com/huamei_iwk9zp/afts/img/A*rHIYQIL1X-QAAAAAAAAAAAAADgCCAQ/original
coverDark: https://mdn.alipayobjects.com/huamei_iwk9zp/afts/img/A*uaGhTY1-LL0AAAAAAAAAAAAADgCCAQ/original
demo:
  cols: 1
---

## When To Use

Often used when chatting.

## Examples

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
<code src="./demo/basic.tsx" >basic</code>
<code src="./demo/variant-and-shape.tsx"> ariants and shapes</code>
<code src="./demo/sider-and-placement.tsx">sidebar and placement</code>
<code src="./demo/header.tsx">header</code>
<code src="./demo/footer.tsx">footer</code>
<code src="./demo/loading.tsx" >loading</code>
<code src="./demo/animation.tsx">animation</code>
<code src="./demo/stream.tsx">stream</code>
<code src="./demo/custom-content.tsx" >custom rendered content</code>
<code src="./demo/markdown.tsx">render the markdown content</code>
<code src="./demo/editable.tsx">editable bubble</code>
<code src="./demo/list.tsx" > Bubble.List</code>
<code src="./demo/list-ref.tsx">Bubble.List Ref</code>
<code src="./demo/semantic-list-custom.tsx">semantic customization</code>
<code src="./demo/gpt-vis.tsx">render charts using GPT-Vis</code>

## API

Common Props Reference: [Common Props](/docs/react/common-props)

### Bubble

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Attributes | Description | Type | Default | Version | 
|------|------|------|--------|------| 
| prefixCls | Custom class prefixes | string | - | - | 
| rootStyle | Root Node Style | React.CSSProperties | - | - | 
| styles | Semantic structure style | [Record<SemanticDOM, CSSProperties>](#semantic-dom) | - |  |
| rootClassName | Root node class name | string | - | - | 
| classNames | Semantic structure class | [Record<SemanticDOM, string>](#semantic-dom) | - |  |
| placement | Bubble Location | `start` \| `end` | `start` | - | 
| loading | Load Status | boolean | - | - | 
| loadingRender | Custom loading content rendering | () => React.ReactNode | - | - | 
| content | Bubble Contents | [ContentType](#contenttype) | - | - | 
| contentRender | Custom content rendering | (content: ContentType) => React.ReactNode | - | - | 
| editable | Whether bubble is editable | boolean \| [EditableBubbleOption](#editablebubbleoption) | `false` | - | 
| typing | Typing Animation Effects | boolean \| [BubbleAnimationOption](#bubbleanimationoption) | `false` | - | 
| streaming | Whether it is streaming | boolean | `false` | - | 
| variant | Bubble style variants | `filled` \| `outlined` \| `shadow` \| `borderless` | `filled` | - | 
| shape | Bubble Shape | `default` \| `round` \| `corner` | `default` | - | 
| footerPlacement | Bottom Slot Position | `outer-start` \| `outer-end` \| `inner-start` \| `inner-end` | `outer-start` | - | 
| components | Expand Slot Configuration | { header?: [BubbleSlot](#bubbleslot); footer?: BubbleSlot; avatar?: BubbleSlot; extra?: BubbleSlot; } | - | - | 
| onTyping | Animation Execution Callback | (rendererContent: string, currentContent: string) => void | - | - | 
| onTypingComplete | Animation end callback | (content: string) => void | - | - |
| onEditing | Editing callback | (content: string) => void | - | - |

#### streaming

`streaming` can be passed to tell Bubble if the current `content` is a streaming input. When in streaming mode, with or without Bubble input animation, the Bubble will not trigger the `onTypingComplete` callback until `streaming` becomes `false`, even if the current `content` has fully outputted. This avoids the issue of multiple triggers of `onTypingComplete` callbacks due to unstable streaming, ensuring that only `onTypingComplete` is triggered once during a streaming process.

In [this example](#bubble-demo-stream), you can try to force the streaming flag to be turned off while

- If you enable input animations, `onTypingComplete` will be triggered multiple times when performing a **load slowly** because the streaming speed cannot keep up with the animation speed.
- If you turn off the input animation, `onTypingComplete` will be triggered every time you stream the input.

### Bubble.List Component API

| Attributes | Description | Type | Default | Version |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| prefixCls | Custom class prefixes | string | - | - |
| rootClassName | Root node class name | string | - | - |
| rootStyle | Root Node Style | React.CSSProperties | - | - |
| items | Bubble data list, `key`, `role` required | (BubbleProps & { key: string \| number, role: string }) [] | - | - |
| autoScroll | Whether to auto-scroll | boolean | `true` | - |
| role | Role default configuration | [RoleType](#roletype) | - | - |

#### ContentType

Default type

```typescript
type ContentType = React.ReactNode | AnyObject | string | number;
```

Custom type usage

```tsx
type CustomContentType {
  ...
}

<Bubble<CustomContentType> {... props} />
```

#### BubbleSlot

```typescript
type BubbleSlot<ContentType> = React.ReactNode | ((content: ContentType) => React.ReactNode);
```

#### EditableBubbleOption

```typescript
interface EditableBubbleOption {
  /**
   * @description Whether to enable editing
   */
  editing?: boolean;
  /**
   * @description Button UI for commit
   */
  okText?: React.ReactNode;
  /**
   * @description Button UI for cancel
   */
  cancelText?: React.ReactNode;
}
```

#### BubbleAnimationOption

```typescript
interface BubbleAnimationOption {
  /**
   * @description Animation effect type, typewriter, fade
   */
  effect: 'typing' | 'fade-in';
  /**
   * @description Content step units, array format as random intervals
   */
  step?: number | [number, number];
  /**
   * @description Animation trigger interval
   */
  interval?: number;
  /**
   * @description Whether to restart an animation with the common prefix of the text
   */
  keepPrefix?: boolean;
  /**
   * @description Stepping UI under typewriter effect
   */
  suffix?: React.ReactNode;
}
```

#### RoleType

```typescript
type RoleProps = Pick<
  BubbleProps,
  | 'typing'
  | 'variant'
  | 'shape'
  | 'placement'
  | 'rootClassName'
  | 'classNames'
  | 'className'
  | 'rootStyle'
  | 'styles'
  | 'style'
  | 'loading'
  | 'loadingRender'
  | 'contentRender'
  | 'footerPlacement'
  | 'components'
> & { key: string | number; role: string };

export type FuncRoleProps = (data: BubbleData) => RoleProps;

export type RoleType = Partial<Record<'ai' | 'system' | 'user', RoleProps | FuncRoleProps>> &
  Record<string, RoleProps | FuncRoleProps>;
```

## Semantic DOM

<code src="./demo/_semantic.tsx" simplify="true"></code>

## Design Token

<ComponentTokenTable component="Bubble"></ComponentTokenTable>

Commit message:

docs(Bubble): Bubble.List autoScroll explanation

packages/x/components/bubble/index.en-US.md, after:

---
category: Components
group:
  title: Common
  order: 0
title: Bubble
description: A bubble component for chat.
cover: https://mdn.alipayobjects.com/huamei_iwk9zp/afts/img/A*rHIYQIL1X-QAAAAAAAAAAAAADgCCAQ/original
coverDark: https://mdn.alipayobjects.com/huamei_iwk9zp/afts/img/A*uaGhTY1-LL0AAAAAAAAAAAAADgCCAQ/original
demo:
  cols: 1
---

## When To Use

Often used when chatting.

## Examples

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
<code src="./demo/basic.tsx" >basic</code>
<code src="./demo/variant-and-shape.tsx"> ariants and shapes</code>
<code src="./demo/sider-and-placement.tsx">sidebar and placement</code>
<code src="./demo/header.tsx">header</code>
<code src="./demo/footer.tsx">footer</code>
<code src="./demo/loading.tsx" >loading</code>
<code src="./demo/animation.tsx">animation</code>
<code src="./demo/stream.tsx">stream</code>
<code src="./demo/custom-content.tsx" >custom rendered content</code>
<code src="./demo/markdown.tsx">render the markdown content</code>
<code src="./demo/editable.tsx">editable bubble</code>
<code src="./demo/list.tsx" > Bubble.List</code>
<code src="./demo/list-ref.tsx">Bubble.List Ref</code>
<code src="./demo/semantic-list-custom.tsx">semantic customization</code>
<code src="./demo/gpt-vis.tsx">render charts using GPT-Vis</code>

## API

Common Props Reference: [Common Props](/docs/react/common-props)

### Bubble

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Attributes | Description | Type | Default | Version | 
|------|------|------|--------|------| 
| prefixCls | Custom class prefixes | string | - | - | 
| rootStyle | Root Node Style | React.CSSProperties | - | - | 
| styles | Semantic structure style | [Record<SemanticDOM, CSSProperties>](#semantic-dom) | - |  |
| rootClassName | Root node class name | string | - | - | 
| classNames | Semantic structure class | [Record<SemanticDOM, string>](#semantic-dom) | - |  |
| placement | Bubble Location | `start` \| `end` | `start` | - | 
| loading | Load Status | boolean | - | - | 
| loadingRender | Custom loading content rendering | () => React.ReactNode | - | - | 
| content | Bubble Contents | [ContentType](#contenttype) | - | - | 
| contentRender | Custom content rendering | (content: ContentType) => React.ReactNode | - | - | 
| editable | Whether bubble is editable | boolean \| [EditableBubbleOption](#editablebubbleoption) | `false` | - | 
| typing | Typing Animation Effects | boolean \| [BubbleAnimationOption](#bubbleanimationoption) | `false` | - | 
| streaming | Whether it is streaming | boolean | `false` | - | 
| variant | Bubble style variants | `filled` \| `outlined` \| `shadow` \| `borderless` | `filled` | - | 
| shape | Bubble Shape | `default` \| `round` \| `corner` | `default` | - | 
| footerPlacement | Bottom Slot Position | `outer-start` \| `outer-end` \| `inner-start` \| `inner-end` | `outer-start` | - | 
| components | Expand Slot Configuration | { header?: [BubbleSlot](#bubbleslot); footer?: BubbleSlot; avatar?: BubbleSlot; extra?: BubbleSlot; } | - | - | 
| onTyping | Animation Execution Callback | (rendererContent: string, currentContent: string) => void | - | - | 
| onTypingComplete | Animation end callback | (content: string) => void | - | - |
| onEditing | Editing callback | (content: string) => void | - | - |

#### streaming

`streaming` can be passed to tell Bubble if the current `content` is a streaming input. When in streaming mode, with or without Bubble input animation, the Bubble will not trigger the `onTypingComplete` callback until `streaming` becomes `false`, even if the current `content` has fully outputted. This avoids the issue of multiple triggers of `onTypingComplete` callbacks due to unstable streaming, ensuring that only `onTypingComplete` is triggered once during a streaming process.

In [this example](#bubble-demo-stream), you can try to force the streaming flag to be turned off while

- If you enable input animations, `onTypingComplete` will be triggered multiple times when performing a **load slowly** because the streaming speed cannot keep up with the animation speed.
- If you turn off the input animation, `onTypingComplete` will be triggered every time you stream the input.

#### Bubble.List AutoScroll Top Alignment

The automatic scrolling scheme of **Bubble.List** is actually a very simple reverse sorting scheme, so in a fixed-height **Bubble.List**, if the message content is small and does not fill the height of the **Bubble.List**, then you will find that the message content is bottom-aligned. Therefore, it is not recommended to set a fixed height for the **Bubble.List**, but to add a fixed height to the parent container of the **Bubble.List**, and set the parent container to the elastic layout `display: flex` and `flex-direction: column`, so that the **Bubble.List** will use adaptive height and top alignment when there is less content. As shown in the [Bubble List](#bubble-demo-list).

```tsx
<div style={{ height: 600, display: 'flex', flexDirection: 'column' }}>
  <Bubble.List items={items} autoScroll />
</div>
```

If you don't want to use elastic layout, you can set the maximum height `max-height` for **Bubble.List**. In this way, when there is less content, the height of **Bubble.List** will adapt to the top alignment effect.

```tsx
<Bubble.List items={items} autoScroll rootStyle={{ maxHeight: 600 }} />
```

### Bubble.List Component API

| Attributes | Description | Type | Default | Version |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| prefixCls | Custom class prefixes | string | - | - |
| rootClassName | Root node class name | string | - | - |
| rootStyle | Root Node Style | React.CSSProperties | - | - |
| items | Bubble data list, `key`, `role` required | (BubbleProps & { key: string \| number, role: string }) [] | - | - |
| autoScroll | Whether to auto-scroll | boolean | `true` | - |
| role | Role default configuration | [RoleType](#roletype) | - | - |

#### ContentType

Default type

```typescript
type ContentType = React.ReactNode | AnyObject | string | number;
```

Custom type usage

```tsx
type CustomContentType {
  ...
}

<Bubble<CustomContentType> {... props} />
```

#### BubbleSlot

```typescript
type BubbleSlot<ContentType> = React.ReactNode | ((content: ContentType) => React.ReactNode);
```

#### EditableBubbleOption

```typescript
interface EditableBubbleOption {
  /**
   * @description Whether to enable editing
   */
  editing?: boolean;
  /**
   * @description Button UI for commit
   */
  okText?: React.ReactNode;
  /**
   * @description Button UI for cancel
   */
  cancelText?: React.ReactNode;
}
```

#### BubbleAnimationOption

```typescript
interface BubbleAnimationOption {
  /**
   * @description Animation effect type, typewriter, fade
   */
  effect: 'typing' | 'fade-in';
  /**
   * @description Content step units, array format as random intervals
   */
  step?: number | [number, number];
  /**
   * @description Animation trigger interval
   */
  interval?: number;
  /**
   * @description Whether to restart an animation with the common prefix of the text
   */
  keepPrefix?: boolean;
  /**
   * @description Stepping UI under typewriter effect
   */
  suffix?: React.ReactNode;
}
```

#### RoleType

```typescript
type RoleProps = Pick<
  BubbleProps,
  | 'typing'
  | 'variant'
  | 'shape'
  | 'placement'
  | 'rootClassName'
  | 'classNames'
  | 'className'
  | 'rootStyle'
  | 'styles'
  | 'style'
  | 'loading'
  | 'loadingRender'
  | 'contentRender'
  | 'footerPlacement'
  | 'components'
> & { key: string | number; role: string };

export type FuncRoleProps = (data: BubbleData) => RoleProps;

export type RoleType = Partial<Record<'ai' | 'system' | 'user', RoleProps | FuncRoleProps>> &
  Record<string, RoleProps | FuncRoleProps>;
```

## Semantic DOM

<code src="./demo/_semantic.tsx" simplify="true"></code>

## Design Token

<ComponentTokenTable component="Bubble"></ComponentTokenTable>
